1. Which one of the following is a key feature of a unitary system of government?
1) Power is shared between different levels.
2) The Central Government can order the Provincial Government.
3) The Central Government cannot order the Provincial Government.
4) There are independent state governments.
Answer: option 2: The Central Government can order the Provincial Government
2. Which country adopted a policy of majoritarianism after its independence, leading to ethnic conflict?
1) Belgium
2) Sri Lanka
3) India
4) Northern Ireland
Answer: option 2: Sri Lanka
3. Which of the following crops is a major source of the Jaggery (gur) and Khandsari industry?
1) Tea
2) Cotton
3) Jute
4) Sugarcane
Answer: option 4: Sugarcane
4. Which type of resource is replenished by nature over a period of time, such as water or forests?
1) Non-renewable resource
2) Biotic resource
3) Renewable resource
4) Potential resource
Answer: option 3: Renewable resource
5. The term Satyagraha was first introduced by Mahatma Gandhi in which place in India?
1) Ahmedabad
2) Dandi
3) Champaran
4) Kheda
Answer: option 3: Champaran
6. What is the average expected number of years of life of a person at the time of birth called?
1) Infant Mortality Rate
2) Literacy Rate
3) Life Expectancy at Birth
4) Net Attendance Ratio
Answer: option 3: Life Expectancy at Birth
7. Which international institution was set up at the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944 to finance post-war reconstruction?
1) United Nations
2) World Trade Organization
3) International Monetary Fund (IMF)
4) League of Nations
Answer: option 3: International Monetary Fund (IMF)
8. What is the highest point in the Western Ghats?
1) Dodabetta
2) Kanchenjunga
3) Anai Mudi
4) Mahendragiri
Answer: option 3: Anai Mudi
9. Which sector of the economy includes activities where goods are produced by exploiting natural resources?
1) Tertiary Sector
2) Secondary Sector
3) Primary Sector
4) Organized Sector
Answer: option 3: Primary Sector
10. Which political party's guiding philosophy is to seek benefits and promotion for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes?
1) Indian National Congress
2) Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)
3) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)
4) Communist Party of India (Marxist)
Answer: option 2: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)
